# Mask-and-social-distancing-detector
Justication of Problem :
People in many public places like markets, railway stations are reluctant to follow safety measures issued by the government to fight against COVID-19 and might be under a great threat of getting afffected by the deadly virus very easily. Hence, it is extremely important to ensure the safety of public and also the frontline covid workers for a better tomorrow
Description of innovative Solution:
The solution I have provided uses Articial Intelligence(AI) efficiently with the code written in python programming language.The code when implemented detects the people not following the safety measures that includes wearing the mask properly(covering nose and mouth fully) and maintaining a social distance of atleast 6 feet from each other that will lessen the risk of spreading of virus. The people following safety measures correctly will be denoted with green-outlined bounding boxes and the ones not following the safety measures will be denoted by red-outlined bounding boxes. Also, the ones either not wearing masks properly(like covering only the mouth or nose) or violating social
distancing will be denoted by yellow-outlined bounding boxes. This will smoothen the work of the controller of this system to easily identify the people violating the safety rules and warn them before they enter a particular place.
Description of the technology/management practices involved in innovative solution to achieve to given objective.
Maintaining social distancing and wearing masks are a crucial matter in the time of post COVID situations. In this project, we present mask and social distancing detector using Mask R-CNN.We chose Mask R-CNN to come a solution since in recent times,deep learning, especially Region-based Convolutional Neural Networks (R-CNN), has achieved such phenomenal successes in multiple computer vision tasks such as image classication, object detection and semantic segmentation etc. Our method uses Mask R-CNN to detect whether the pedestrians are wearing masks accordingly and creates a bounding box. Later the centroid of the these bounding boxes are found benecial to calculate the distance between them, that is if the distance between the bounding boxes is less that 6 feet it indicates that they aren’t following social distancing. The color of the bounding boxes decides the degree to which the safety measures are followed. In other words if the color of the bounding box is green that means the individual is both wearing mask and maintaining social
distancing, if the color is red the the individual isn’t following any of the rules and nally if it is yellow he/she is following either of the safety precautions.
